we're living through a period of history
in which there is an understandable but
utterly
wrong tendency to treat racism
as if it were a mental illness or even
as if it were
an epidemic to be contained a type of
communicable disease as if racist
attitudes
are passed on from parents to their
children
passed on from school teachers to
children even as a sort of contagion
to be contained to a very large extent
obviously when we're talking about
racism we're talking about something
that is primarily emotional
rather than rational and yet it's the
rational
part of the equation that's the most
important
to address in politics
if you had been born and raised in
israel
and completed your military service in
how do you think you'd feel about
germans
let's just if you were
under 30 years old
how do you think you would feel as a
contemporary
21st century israeli jew about
germans who were also under 30 years old
there's no chance they're directly
responsible
for the events of world war ii and the
holocaust when you have grown up
with the central tragedy of the history
of your people
being a part of your education a part of
your experience of the world
is being part of the founding mythology
explaining
why you're living where you are in the
conditions you're living in them the
creation of the world
as you know it hinges on this
cataclysmic genocidal event
even if it was in your grandparents
lives or your great-grandparents lives
right
how do you think you'd feel is it
possible that you
would be just a little bit racist
if you had been born and raised cree
or ojibwe or mohawk or
navajo if you had been born and raised
as one of the indigenous
people of the united states of america
or canada
how do you think you'd feel about white
americans
we don't even need to add here the
caveat if you were under 30 years old
you're talking about other white
americans who are under 30 years old
because in
that case the genocidal series of events
that remade
the world as you know what they've
happened so long ago
right and yet the consequences remain
so hard for us to deal with
okay i think these are the themes these
are the questions that come out
when we're talking about racism towards
white people and we're so ill-equipped
to deal with it culturally because of
this preconception that what we need to
address
is a kind of mental illness is a kind of
contagion
it's a misconception that takes on a
life
of its own like a cult belief that
people signing up for a cult getting
into a
an ideology that somehow is
self-justifying and takes over people's
minds
and no to a very large extent
the racism we're dealing with in the
21st century
is a rational product
of events in the 19th century or in the
18th century
you know or maybe just a few decades ago
now of course racism is still bad
and evil and wrong the fact that
you personally may have had really
negative experiences
with white people your whole life
you know doesn't mean that you can treat
the next random white person you meet
in a bad way that you can despise them
that you can be prejudicing you can be
biased against them
even if the last 19 20 30
white people you've had to deal with
face to face you've had this kind of
conflict with
even if you were raised in a situation
as extreme as the indigenous people of
north america you know this kind of
cultural context in which you were
raised as a member of a
defeated nation and you had to wear the
symbol of that defeat on your face
at all times and you went to ceremonies
where you sing and dance but every year
there are fewer people who can even
understand the lyrics in the songs
anymore
right where the whole political system
and economic system that surrounds you
was built on the ashes of your culture
and your civilization and their national
holidays
are celebrating when they defeated you
and drove
your language to extinction right with
the national religion that surrounds you
right has its history of genocidal
campaigns against what was your
ancestral religion right to to live with
that
and still have the detachment and the
self-discipline to meet another white
person and say hey
i'm gonna evaluate this person just as a
human being
i don't know i'm gonna set aside all my
bad experiences
and the bad experiences of my parents
and grandparents and the whole kind of
civilizational
genocidal context for this meeting i'm
gonna meet you face to face and i'm just
going to treat you
as a person i treat you as an unknown no
matter how many
negative experiences i've had before and
keep in mind
you know our indigenous people
most of them grow up with white
schoolteachers white school principals
right many of the authority figures they
will have had
negative experiences with early in life
will have been white the first police
officers
they've interacted with as teenagers
very likely to be
white they are very likely to see those
confrontations as attributable
to that grand civilizational narrative
of defeat conquest and genocide right
they're very likely to imagine or assume
that this school teacher or this police
officer is teaching
is treating them like garbage is being
rude to them or is being cruel to them
just because of the color of their
scanner just because of their ethnic
status
right and of course they might be right
or they might be wrong
on a case by case basis this is the kind
of racism we're all
struggling with in the 21st century and
i i mean that i know
i know that may sound right that i say
we're all
dealing with okay if you stop and
examine your own experiences in life
you may have these kinds of prejudices
and you may not be aware that you
struggle to contain them or
compartmentalize them or have detachment
about them
i have a prejudice against
white australians right i used to live
in cambodia i used to live in laos i
used to live in thailand
even when i was living in hong kong okay
white australians seemed consistently to
be the most despicable human beings
on this earth they made a very powerful
negative impression of me i have
australian fans
of this channel if they send me an email
or
in theory if they meet me face to face
in real life
i have to put aside that anecdotal
personal subjective
experience those apprehensions those
those you know i've have to put this
i have to put aside also the political
history
that forms the context of this because
i'll tell you something if there's one
country on earth
that's even more egregiously guilty
of a history of genocide under the
british empire right it's australia
and what what country on earth is worse
than
canada the united states well australia
is a real candidate this way their
their guilt their civilizational
narrative um
you know it's not just bad it's one of
the few that might be might be worse
than ours and i and i feel that
when i deal with this i'll be real with
you i had an australian friend
this is true of actually more than one
australian friend i'm thinking of one in
particular
an australian friend once and i remember
he sat down with me
a white guy needless to say and he gave
his justification for why he thought the
genocide and conquest and extinction of
those languages was just
fine and dandy why it wasn't his own
mind he made up
you know these excuses for
i was a practicing buddhist at the time
you know i didn't
you know um you know boy
i hated him you know i i hated him for
it
and we were made friends for several
years after that you know you know i
i was i was disciplined about it but you
know
wow and i've got to say there's part of
me just even from that one conversation
it's not the only conversation i've had
like that i still carry it with me
when i meet other australians i do
you know and i've done so many
australians
who were studying buddhism
you know they were into alternate hippie
lifestyle
alternate religion you know they were
into kind of counter culture
they weren't you know strict adherents
of kind of british empire
anglican tradition but still
they were racist against indigenous
people they were racist against
aboriginal australians they were
pro-empire pro-genocide you know they're
still part of
you know like oh okay so you want to
meditate and embrace something that
comes out of
asian culture right but you can't
question this aspect
okay i've got i've got conflict there
i've got a kind of
prejudice a kind of racism
against white australians and it's
partly that
personal experience that you know buys
me that way
partly a broader political historical
civilizational
narrative okay and i still have to meet
them
face to face on a case-by-case basis i
have to treat
each and every australian i meet as an
unwritten chapter in my life
as a blank sheet of paper i have to
treat them as something genuinely
unknown i have to give them that chance
i have to give them the chance to be
the exception of the rule all right
i've known white people depends to some
extent on what their job was in life and
just even where they were from
geography i have known white people who
told me
sincerely that every single indigenous
person they knew
was an alcoholic or a drug addict or
both
right this these are the people they
knew you know i've known people from
different walks of life
i knew one guy who worked in
construction and you know he knew the
type of people who
worked in construction on his racial
views and so on you know reflected that
when you live in saskatchewan and so on
you know so you're dealing with someone
who's had
incredibly negative experiences with a
non-representative
sample of the population and what i say
to those people every time
is look it wouldn't matter
if 90 of them were drug addicts now cogs
even if it were 90 percent
you still have to have an absolute moral
commitment
not to them to yourself for your own
moral integrity right you have to be
committed
to meet and speak to each and every one
of them
face to face with total detachment right
detachment over your own feelings
detachment over
whatever the statistics are right you
have to be willing to meet them as a
human being
like you know on neutral ground and
let them show you who they are
each and every time even if you are
disappointed
each and every time
again you know you might work behind the
counter
of a liquor store and you know what a
remarkably large percentage the people
you meet as your customers
are alcoholics you might work at a strip
club
and you know for different ethnic groups
you're meeting people kind of at their
worst
some of the people you meet they might
other times of the day if you've met
them
you might have a different impression of
them and you're seeing these guys when
they're drunk and on
drugs and trying to harass the women in
the strip club or whatever
you know different people are working
these different contacts said i knew
i knew a white guy and he had been
married
to more than one black woman his own
children
were thus half white half black
he worked in construction
his level of racism against black people
was just mind-boggling he's just you
know it's like
your wife is black your kids are black
you really live and yet nevertheless
you're
so racist against black people and he
would tell you
it was based on years of experience
working on the construction site
you know he had he had his reasons right
it was a kind of rational racism right
but rational doesn't mean
good it's rational and it's still
something you have to overcome and how
are you going to overcome it
right you've got to overcome it through
detachment
and through what i call active research
active research
leading to an informed opinion all right
in the 21st century it was completely
predictable
that this would be the century in which
racism
against white people would intensify
as never before
things that were unknown are becoming
known things that small numbers of
scholars
had to find in an archive are becoming
instantly google searchable right
if you're korean how do you feel
about the massacres that took place in
the korean war
how are koreans in the future gonna feel
about those massacres
they're becoming more known they're not
being forgotten
they're becoming instantly accessible
instantly knowable
in ever greater detail we even have
photographs
if you live in north africa you're born
and raised
in north africa how do you feel about
the history
of the french empire really we could say
any european empire the italians and
others and the british of course all had
empires in africa right how how do you
feel about it
something that in the past might have
been a rumor or word of mouth
spread around by your grandfather all
the archives are on
are on the internet now in just a few
mouse clicks
you can get i i've been in the torture
chambers
that the french empire houston laos by
the way it's
a funny story i wasn't tortured there
but i've been in the
pin in the building okay you can get the
records
of who tortured who and why you can get
the records
of what they did to suppress rebellion
in cambodia it was a real example they
would
line up groups of 10 cambodian men i'm
sorry
actually i think it was actually 12
and they would kill 10 of them i was
going to say it was 9 out of 10. i think
they would kill 10 out of 12
and then they would send two of them
away alive so they'd spread the story of
this
execution random massacres
taken out it's not becoming forgotten
it's becoming more easily knowable in
ever greater
detail so let's say you're let's say
you're
someone born and raised in north africa
how do you understand your own identity
how do you relate to white europeans
as that history becomes more instantly
and verifiably
known let's take a step back
through the centuries how are you going
to feel about the fact
that your indigenous culture your
indigenous religion
your indigenous language and most of the
things that made your civilization great
were wiped out by islam north africa is
now a mix
of various indigenous peoples and more
or less
arabicized peoples
through the massive civilizational
expansion of
the islamic world right i have met
and spoken to a small number
of north africans who said openly
that they bitterly resent the fact that
their indigenous language their
indigenous culture was wiped out
by the muslim empires that everything
good about their people and who they
could have been and what they were
before
that this was suffocated by islam
and one said to me that's why i'm an
atheist i mean not all these people were
racist
you know there was one guy i didn't talk
to him face to face i talked to his
girlfriend
and he was born and raised in central
asia
and he intensely and in great detail
knew about the buddhist religion that
was indigenous to his country and what
those customs and dances and costumes
were like
and he knew that they had been
exterminated by islam
so in the same way that some people
whether in australia or canada you know
they regard themselves
as a defeated people as a conquered
people and then they look at racism and
racial politics through that
lens right these are people who are even
looking at the status of islam and their
culture the domination
of their culture by islam and looking
back at history and saying it didn't
have to be this way
right we could have ended up being a
country that's more like japan
or more like thailand we could have had
our own unique
you know cultural story that emerged out
of a mix of buddhism and animism
and other you know cultural influences
and instead
this was suffocated by islam and they
resent it
right and a new kind of national
consciousness
a new kind of racism right
may now emerge out of that resentment
the world is changing
in ways that are difficult to trace
because
precisely the sort of information that
used to be the exclusive domain
of scholars is becoming instantly
clickable
on the internet it's becoming knowable
and verifiable
and it's going to shape people's lives
to a much greater extent
than rumor and innuendo passed on
by their parents and grandparents okay
the mythology that made the british
empire
make sense has died
okay and what has replaced it
what's replaced it are instantly
clickable archives
that are going to include the details of
and sometimes even
photographs of people being tortured to
death
the mythology that made the french
empire make sense the mythology that
made the portuguese empire make sense
and the dutch empire the mythology
has died out and what has replaced it
is a set of cold hard facts
about imperialism and colonialism
that we have yet to feel
the full depth of resentment
i had one friend we now haven't spoken
in many years
six years or so i had one friend
who was chinese ethnically chinese
married to
a white man their child was half white
half chinese
they moved to africa together i think he
was in the oil and gas industry this
white guy which is
very unsurprising given the other things
i've just told you
so he had a straight job in a corporate
office kind of thing
you know and she is the wife would
take care of the baby and go to the
fruit vegetable market
and she said the racism of the people
the racism of these black african people
the particular place she was living
against her husband was so intense
and she said couldn't believe it she
could go to the same market
alone or her with the baby and these
people would be so wonderful to her
they'd be so kind and so encouraging
and you know obviously she's struggling
with the language barrier
she was chinese i mean she's still a
foreigner she's still an outsider to
them
right and this is a this is a culture
where 99.9 of people are black
you know um it's not a multicultural
society in that sense or multi-ethnic
society and everyone's so warm and
positive and loving
and then if she comes back with her
husband who is
white and french
i understand most people will have
clicked on this video
thinking you were going to get some kind
of caddy
shallow commentary on what people say on
twitter
what people say on facebook and what
people say on instagram
the the widely observed fad
or fashion of blaming white people for
everything and even using
white as an insult attacking vegans as
white vegans
and attacking different ideologies and
schools of thought
as white okay
it's a little too easy
you know in the middle of beijing china
politically economically and militarily
one of the most powerful places in the
world
right
they have giant portraits of two
white men in tiananmen square karl marx
and friedrich engels
if you grew up in china today
if you grew up in cambodia today
don't you think you might feel
that everything that was good and right
about your country
was destroyed by white people and by
white people's
influence the influence of
the west of european civilization
of europeans of white people it's
not limited to colonialism it's not
limited
to imperialism and it's not even right
wing
that's kind of the implicit stereotype
okay
there's this whole other can of worms
there's this whole other unfathomable
legacy
that is now going to inspire resentment
and frankly
racism as the people of china and the
people of cambodia
wake up to the extent to which their
culture
their language their civilization was
ruined precisely because
they embraced white western ideas
they worshipped karl marx and frederick
engels and to some extent people like
lenin and stalin that they adopted the
white man's wisdom
and they burned down their buddhist
temples they burned their books
they adopted a fundamentally self-hating
attitude of trying to destroy everything
about their own culture so that they
could dress like
compete with and imitate white europeans
i think the 21st century is going to be
the first century of a blossoming
ongoing global culture of anti-white
racism
such as has never been documented in the
history of the world
before
what we see now unfolding
within the united states of america
on twitter on facebook
it's a joke don't laugh
take it seriously it's a harbinger of
much worse things silicone